# Definitions

## Programing

### Imperative programming

In computer science, imperative programming is a programming paradigm that uses statements that change a program's
state. In much the same way that the imperative mood in natural languages expresses commands, an imperative program
consists of commands for the computer to perform. Imperative programming focuses on describing how a program operates.

The term is often used in contrast to declarative programming, which focuses on what the program should accomplish
without specifying how the program should achieve the result.

### Declarative programming

In computer science, declarative programming is a programming paradigm—a style of building the structure and elements of
computer programs—that expresses the logic of a computation without describing its control flow.

Many languages that apply this style attempt to minimize or eliminate side effects by describing what the program must
accomplish in terms of the problem domain, rather than describe how to accomplish it as a sequence of the programming
language primitives (the how being left up to the language's implementation). This is in contrast with imperative
programming, which implements algorithms in explicit steps.

Declarative programming often considers programs as theories of a formal logic, and computations as deductions in that
logic space. Declarative programming may greatly simplify writing parallel programs.

Common declarative languages include those of database query languages (e.g., SQL, XQuery), regular expressions, logic
programming, functional programming, and configuration management systems.

### Functional programming

In computer science, functional programming is a programming paradigm where programs are constructed by applying and
composing functions. It is a declarative programming paradigm in which function definitions are trees of expressions
that map values to other values, rather than a sequence of imperative statements which update the running state of the
program.

In functional programming, functions are treated as first-class citizens, meaning that they can be bound to names (
including local identifiers), passed as arguments, and returned from other functions, just as any other data type can.
This allows programs to be written in a declarative and composable style, where small functions are combined in a
modular manner.

Functional programming is sometimes treated as synonymous with purely functional programming, a subset of functional
programming which treats all functions as deterministic mathematical functions, or pure functions. When a pure function
is called with some given arguments, it will always return the same result, and cannot be affected by any mutable state
or other side effects. This is in contrast with impure procedures, common in imperative programming, which can have side
effects (such as modifying the program's state or taking input from a user). Proponents of purely functional programming
claim that by restricting side effects, programs can have fewer bugs, be easier to debug and test, and be more suited to
formal verification.